[DOC] Add traces to profile content (#2980)
grafana/pyroscope: docs/sources/view-and-analyze-profile-data/_index.md

---
title: View and analyze profile data
menuTitle: View and analyze profile data
description: How to use Pyroscope to view and analyze profile data.
aliases:
  - ../ingest-and-analyze-profile-data/
weight: 50
keywords:
  - pyroscope
  - UI
  - performance analysis
  - flamegraphs
  - CLI
---

# View and analyze profile data

Profiling data can be presented in a variety of formats presents such as:
- **Flamegraphs**: Visualize call relationships and identify hotspots.
- **Tables**: View detailed statistics for specific functions or time periods.
- **Charts and graphs**: Analyze trends and compare performance across different metrics.

## Viewing profiles

Pyroscope offers both a Command Line Interface (CLI) and an Application Programming Interface (API) to interact with and retrieve profiling data. These tools provide flexibility in how you access and manage your profiling information.

You can export profiling data from Pyroscope in various formats:

> - **JSON**: JSON object easy to integrate with other tools and scripts

Reviewer: The most popular is pprof and we support that to be precised it gzip compressed pprof `foo.pprof.gz`

Author: Added.

> - **JSON**: JSON object easy to integrate with other tools and scripts

Author: ```suggestion
- **pprof**: Support for pprof, gzip compressed pprof, `foo.pprof.gz`
- **JSON**: JSON object easy to integrate with other tools and scripts
```

> - **dot**: text containing a DOT representation of the profile

Reviewer 2: We used to have this option in pre v1 versions, but as of now there is no way to visualize/export profiles in the dot format in Grafana

Reviewer 3: really? I thought we added it for the hackathon cc @aleks-p

Reviewer 4: There is support in the `/render` endpoint if `format=dot` is passed. Anton is right that we can't visualize it (e.g. with Graphviz) or export it to a file yet.

Reviewer 3: makes sense @knylander-grafana we should remove `dot` from here our options we should list here are `json`, `pprof` 
<img width="333" alt="image" src="https://github.com/grafana/pyroscope/assets/23323466/1a4f391a-1181-446c-b1b6-3a2e6a7fa98f">

(png is actually broken right now)

Author: Okay. I'll update it. Thank you! Glad we are doing this review!

> - **dot**: text containing a DOT representation of the profile

Author: ```suggestion
```

Integrating Pyroscope with Grafana is a common and recommended approach for visualizing profiling data. Grafana, being a powerful tool for data visualization, can effectively display profiling data in an accessible and insightful manner.

Options for Visualizing Data in Grafana:
- **Pyroscope App Plugin**: This plugin is specifically designed for Pyroscope data. It allows for easy browsing, analysis, and comparison of multiple profiles across different labels or time periods. This is particularly useful for a comprehensive overview of your application's performance.
- **Explore Tab**: In Grafana, the Explore tab is suited for making targeted queries on your profiling data. This is useful for in-depth analysis of specific aspects of your application's performance.
- **Dashboard**: Grafana dashboards are excellent for integrating profiling data with other metrics. You can display Pyroscope data alongside other dashboard items, creating a unified view of your application’s overall health and performance.

> For more information on using profiles in Grafana, refer to [Pyroscope and profiles in Grafana]({{< relref "../introduction/pyroscope-in-grafana/#pyroscope-and-profiling-in-grafana" >}}).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information on using profiles in Grafana, refer to [Pyroscope and profiles in Grafana]({{< relref "../introduction/pyroscope-in-grafana#pyroscope-and-profiling-in-grafana" >}}).
```

> For more information on using profiles in Grafana, refer to [Pyroscope and profiles in Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/pyroscope/latest/introduction/pyroscope-in-grafana/#pyroscope-and-profiling-in-grafana).

Author: ```suggestion
For more information on using profiles in Grafana, refer to [Pyroscope and profiles in Grafana]({{< relref "../introduction/pyroscope-in-grafana/#pyroscope-and-profiling-in-grafana" >}}).
```

> Note the Pyroscope app plugin is cloud only...

Author: ```suggestion
The Pyroscope app plugin works for Grafana Cloud. 
```
